
August 27, 2025, MJW

# Notes on random stuff during development
## ideas, TODOs, references, ....

## Background

A long time ago in a university far, far away I (Matt) and a friend (Nick)
sat around and discussed several project ideas. The most exciting idea 
turned into this project. Initially, we huddled around my laptop and created
the original "Project_PictureToSounds.xmsx".

Hope he's doing well.

The first idea was converting an image to sound. Some combination of waveforms
to describe what is going on in the area. Core idea being: a person can learn
to recognize and understand sound patterns.

Well, if we can convert image->sound, why not sound->image?
Whoa, let's combine those words: sound + image union = Sounion.
(pronounced SO-union or sow-ni-on, idk)

Well, how can we use sound->image?
Cryptography stuff, advertising stuff, ...

See .xlsx for the original spit balling.

## Inspiration

Just two dudes bouncing ideas off one another.

There was a research project involving sensors and a vibrating vest...
same vein of using sensors to help the visually-impaired.

Hilbert-curve YouTube video by 3Blue1Brown

## Prior works

Honestly, a lot of the same or similar ideas probably already exist...
But I don't care - this project is not about inventing something new.

Especially with the latest machine learning, it is not hard to imagine
an "AI Watcher"(tm) to tell visually-impaired people what's going on.

Maybe it will turn into some open-source library that nobody uses or
into an actual helpful tool. Either way, I am going to work on this after
a +6 year hiatus (besides some document updates).

Previously, I was originally going to write it in C#. Then thought Python
would be the choice. Both C# and Python would work great for this...

But I'm going to use Zig. Started to learn it and think this would be a
great project to write in Zig.

## Roadmap

No clear road map... in development. Roughly: 

OBJECTIVES
1) Project structure
2) Core features
  - conversion
  - path generation
  - output
3) Sound stuff
  - compression
  - modifying
  - ...
4) Crypto stuff
  - new paths
  - encryption methods

Way far off - 
- implement in C#, Python
- GUI apps (mobile + desktop)
- optimization

"ARCHITECTURE"
- idk, got to see what works
- independent library / executable

## Proposed tech stack
Zig
Maybe some community Zig libraries? like for audio/image stuff?
That's it